# Networking

#MP0 Hand In

We will grade only the files that are submitted through SVN. Use the name mp0client.c for your source
code. Also modify the makefile so that execution of the command make mp0client causes the executable
code for the all the programs to be generated by the compiler. The executable files should be named
mp0client and should be in the same MP0 folder. Your program should run with the following command line

prototype:

mp0client <hostname> <port> <username>

Where hostname and port define the parameters to connect to our server, and username is the one that is sent to the
server during the handshake (you can use any username you’d like, we will test it with your netID). To run and test
your code, we will first call make mp0client to compile it, and then call:

./mp0client cs438.cs.illinois.edu 6000 <your_netID>

./mp0client 52.165.147.13 6500 <your_netID>

Finally, running make clean should delete all executable files and any other temporary file that your makefile or
programs create. 

#MP1 Hand In

#client

Your code should compile to generate an executable named http_client, with the usage specified as follows:

./http_client http://hostname[:port]/path/to/file

For example:

./http_client http://illinois.edu/index.html

./http_client http://localhost:5678/somedir/somefile.html

If :port is not specified, default to port 80 – the standard port for HTTP.

Your client should send an HTTP GET request based on the first argument it receives. Your client should then
write the message body of the response received from the server to a file named output. Your client should also be
able to handle redirections as described in detail later

In some cases, the server may send back a status code 301, indicating that the content requested has been moved:

HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently

Location: <new_url>

In this case the client should attempt to retrieve the document in the new_url given in the Location field.

Here is an example from Wikipedia page:

Client request:

GET /index.php HTTP/1.1

Host: www.example.org

Server response:

HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently

Location: http://www.example.org/index.asp

#server

Your code should compile to generate an executable named http_server. It should take one command line argument,
the port number, and start listening on the port specified once started.

The server should handle HTTP GET requests by sending back HTTP responses, as described in detail below.
Your server program should treat all filepaths it's asked for as being relative to its current working directory.
(Meaning just pass the client's request directly to fopen: if the client asks for somedir/somefile.txt, the correct
argument to fopen is “somedir/somefile.txt”).

Warning: running this http_server program essentially makes all files accessible by the http_server process
accessible by anyone who can send a request to the host. Discretion is advised (Only run it on a VM)!

Usage examples:

sudo ./http_server 80

./http_server 8888

(The sudo is there because using any port <1024 requires root access.)

Your server must support concurrent connections: if one client is downloading a 10MB object, another client that
comes looking for a 10KB object shouldn't have to wait for the first to finish.
You can do so by handling each connection in a new thread.
